Contactar
fruto.sergio@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/sergio-gabriel-
fruto-41084645 (LinkedIn)
Aptitudes principales
Full-Stack Development
Front-End Development
Angular
Languages
Inglés (Full Professional)
Spanish (Native or Bilingual)
Certifications
Shaping up with Angular.js
Publications
From HTML + CSS to React + Styled
Components
Sergio Gabriel Fruto
Full Stack Engineer
Argentina
Extracto
Full Stack Engineer from Buenos Aires with 10+ years of experience
building and scaling web applications for startups and global
companies.
My focus is on modern frontend development with React and
Next.js, backed by solid experience in Node.js, C#, Python, and
cloud architectures on AWS, GCP, and Azure. Over the years, I’ve
contributed to platforms for companies like Nike, Samsung, Mercado
Libre, and Auth0 — improving performance, accessibility, and SEO
at scale.
I approach engineering with a balance of craft and pragmatism:
translating design into clean, efficient interfaces, while ensuring
the systems behind them are reliable and scalable. I integrate AI-
assisted development tools such as Copilot, Cursor, and ChatGPT to
accelerate delivery while maintaining code quality and scalability.
Core Strengths
Frontend: React, Next.js, Angular, TypeScript, Styled Components,
HTML5, CSS3
Backend: Node.js, PHP, C#, .NET
UX/UI: Design systems, accessibility, responsive design, animations
Cloud: AWS, GCP, DigitalOcean, Contentful
Business Focus: SEO optimization, testing pipelines, performance
audits
Currently advancing my expertise with AWS and AI-focused
certifications to stay ahead in modern architectures.
Page 1 of 4
Always open to meaningful projects and teams that value building
with quality and purpose.
Experiencia
Cresteo
Full Stack Engineer
febrero de 2024 - Present (2 años 2 meses)
- Collaborated on migrating a legacy platform to a modern architecture
using Next.js App Router and Server Components, Typescript, AWS, Github
Actions.
- Contributed to both frontend and backend development, ensuring code
quality and maintainability.
- Streamlining development pipelines and optimizing performance in
production environments.
- Technologies: React.js, Next.js, Node.js, AWS, Tailwind.CSS, Node.js, AWS,
Typescript.
Deviget LLC
Full Stack Engineer
junio de 2022 - enero de 2024 (1 año 8 meses)
Buenos Aires
- Led development for multi-client platforms using React, Next.js, and
Typescript.
- Built reusable UI libraries and updated legacy platforms (from CakePHP +
Angular to React+Next and MongoDB).
- Implementation and maintenance of design systems, and components library,
updating the styles of old applications, and creating new pages for several
websites.
- Delivered new features and pages for various client websites, improving
performance, user experience, accessibility
- Developed backend services and REST APIs using Node.js and AWS
Lambda.
- Technologies: React.js, Next.js, Node.js, Typescript, Google Cloud, AWS.
Maintenance of the legacy platform based on CakePHP + Angular.
Page 2 of 4
Improvements, performance, accessibility, and SEO.
Mercado Libre
Frontend Developer
mayo de 2020 - junio de 2022 (2 años 2 meses)
Buenos Aires, City of Buenos Aires, Argentina
- Developer in the Search & Conversion team.
- Building and maintenance of the search part of the application, with special
work for the increase in the performance and SEO requirements.
- Worked building components and updating the Search application, using
React and Styled Components.
Scale AI
UI Developer
julio de 2019 - abril de 2020 (10 meses)
Argentina
Developer in the Design team. Migration from old stack to Next JS, creation
of products landing pages, and working on the implementation of Contentful
(headless CMS) for the website content.
Worked on creating and updating the company's Design system, based on
Material-UI.
Creating modern landing pages for the marketing team to promote all the
Scale products.
Auth0
UI Engineer
marzo de 2016 - julio de 2019 (3 años 5 meses)
Buenos Aires
Developer in the Marketing Engineering Team. During my 3 years in Auth0, I
kept working on building UI and bringing designs to life in actual functioning
websites and improved my knowledge in Javascript.
Migrate old backbone + stylus + pug website to a modern stack with React and
Styled Components
Creating and maintaining the website + blog design system.
Creating and maintaining components for the Auth0 application
Page 3 of 4
R/GA
Frontend Developer Jr.
septiembre de 2012 - marzo de 2016 (3 años 7 meses)
Front End Development. HTML5, CSS3, Sass, Less, Javascript, jQuery,
Responsive Web Design.
Educación
Instituto Superior Tecnológico Empresarial Argentino
Tecnicatura Superior en Desarrollo de Software · (2014 - 2016)
Universidad Centro de Altos Estudios en Ciencias Exactas
Licenciatura en Sistemas · (2013 - 2014)
Universidad Tecnológica Nacional
Professional Webmaster, Informatica/Diseño Web · (2012 - 2012)
UBA
Abogacia · (2008 - 2012)
Page 4 of 4